Docker Thursday #1 -- Patch Review
-------------
13 November 2014; 10:24 am - 12:00 pm.

This week, we started with the least-recently updated patches, and deferred reviewing design proposals.

_irc transcript [here](https://botbot.me/freenode/docker-dev/2014-11-13/?msg=25443540&page=7)._

#### Docker PR Count

| Start | Finish |
| ---- | ---- |
| 118 | 111 |


#### Details

17 Patches reviewed: 
- 2 Merged
- 5 Closed
- 5 Assigned --> Maintainer assigned to carry the foolball to Merge
- 2 Labeled with UX --> for review on Docker Tuesdays 
- 3 Comments --> next steps defined for Submitter



| GitHub# | Title | Action  | Comment |
| ------ | :------ | :----- | :----- | 
|  [7887](https://github.com/docker/docker/pull/7887)  |  --help option and help command should print to stdout not stderr   | Closed  | Closed in favor of [#9085](https://github.com/docker/docker/pull/9085)   | 
|  [5910](https://github.com/docker/docker/pull/5910)  |  Modify volume mounts SELinux labels on the fly based on :Z or :z     | UX Label for Review | This PR consists of UI changes with the volumes syntax. |
| [8456](https://github.com/docker/docker/pull/8456) | Cleanup: Replace ResolveRepositoryName with RepositoryInfo{} | Comment | @dmcgowan @dmp42 @jlhawnIf one of you would like to rebase and see this PR to merge then please take if over and do so. If you are uncomfortable with this we would suggest breaking this PR down into separate PRs as it is very large and touches many different areas of the code base. |
| [8589](https://github.com/docker/docker/pull/8589) |  Initial work to allow typed errors from Jobs | Closed | @hickeng Thank you for your contribution. We're going to refactor and replace the jobs system with something better in the near future. Your PR would have been considered for merging if it weren't for this refactor.  |
| [8117](https://github.com/docker/docker/pull/8117) | Foo |  Closed | This was easy to close! |
| [8731](https://github.com/docker/docker/pull/84568731) | Set source IP address for connections originating from a particular container. | Comment | This does not have a client UI for the enabling this. Is it expected to only be enabled through the daemon's remote API? |
| [7619](https://github.com/docker/docker/pull/7619) | Add overlayfs graph backend | Assigned | This looks good. Weâ€™re going to assign it to Cristian and have him carry it through. Adding to 1.4 Milestone. Will be nice to have. |
| [8773](https://github.com/docker/docker/pull/8773) | Support building with gccgo | Assigned | Assigning to @vbatts to move forward with gccgo support. We are interested in moving forward in this area. |
| [7584](https://github.com/docker/docker/pull/7584) |  Perform tarsum verification on image pull | Closed |  @ewindisch I would really like to have coverage for checksums of /v1/, though there is concern as to whether it will cause breakage on current hub and registry behavior. Would this checksum reader slow down the pull transaction? |
| [8897](https://github.com/docker/docker/pull/8897) |  pkg/mount: sharedsubtree options and testing | Merged | adding to the options available for linux, and the sharedsubtree mount behavior. | 
| [8362](https://github.com/docker/docker/pull/8362) | adding ability to copy just a file from container to host | Assigned | This is mostly about the extraction phase, client-side. crosbymichael self-assigned this | 
| [7898](https://github.com/docker/docker/pull/7898) | Links v2: Execin & Ethernet move |  Closed |We initially went forward with this route because we were under the assumption that when moving a veth from one namespace to another it would retain all the configuration of the interface. Reality shows that this is not the case and that when you move the veth it loses all configuration. Moving forward with this specific implementation just makes it more complex, not less. It would be simpler to just place a new veth inside another namespaces and preconfigure it without encoring downtime that the move costs as we can create the new veth and configure it concurrently without changing the original container. |
| [8886](https://github.com/docker/docker/pull/8886) | docker metrics (read metrics from cgroups for specified container) | Assigned | There are a lot of PRs that people are working on where they want to get stats within the Docker Daemon. michael can help work on this and see it through. Maybe we could get  a clear roadmap on the docker repo so everyone working in this area can align. crosbymichael self-assigned this |
| [8229](https://github.com/docker/docker/pull/8229) | Add test for --net=container mode networking | Assigned | Michael can see this through. crosbymichael self-assigned this|
| [8570](https://github.com/docker/docker/pull/8570) | Rename a existing container |  UX Label for Review | Get some attention at the next decision session |
| [8930](https://github.com/docker/docker/pull/8930) | pkg/mount: adding fields supported by freebsd | Merged |  |
| [8937](https://github.com/docker/docker/pull/8937) |  pkg/mount: include optional field | Comment | Can you please add a test for this field? Thanks!|
