
# US TZ irc meeting.

#docker-dev meetings are held twice a week in the #docker-dev irc group on Freenode.
This irc channel is logged all the time, so you can always [refer to it](https://botbot.me/freenode/docker-dev/).

Please remember that there are now 2 meetings, one in an Asia-Pacific timezone, and this one in the SF timezone.

# [https support in docker as default for TCP (erikh)](https://botbot.me/freenode/docker-dev/msg/18941214/)

This is a work in progress, so defered to next week.

(There is work going on in `libtrust`, and in `boot2docker` that has become more obvious over the following week)

# [gh#7017 - container pinning (cpuguy83)](https://botbot.me/freenode/docker-dev/msg/18941514/)

- [Container pinning](https://github.com/docker/docker/issues/7017)

We want some way to make it more difficult to accidentally remove a marked container.

lots of +1's

with a proposal to add a `--pin`

# [gh#7247 - proposal: specify required links in image spec (cpuguy83)](https://botbot.me/freenode/docker-dev/msg/18942476/)

- [Proposal: Image runtime dependencies](https://github.com/docker/docker/issues/7247)

allow the Dockerfile maintainer to define what the image is expecting to be linked in at runtime.

shykes: I'm +1 on the concept, it's just important that we get the design right.
Most importantly it should be useful as hints, but not the absolute source of truth - you still want to be able to add more links not planned by the dependency list
and probably you'll need a flag to deploy even if dependencies are missing
lastly, erikh and vieux are working on an upgrade to the links system (to make them dynamic), so we would need to make sure it's compatible

erikh: 
I think the services proposal we're working on is a great fit for something like this
(which couples with links)

shykes: this could be a in-situ alternative to using the service tool

- [Should we do a feature freeze and focus on code cleanup? If so, how long? (shykes, crosbymichael)](https://botbot.me/freenode/docker-dev/msg/18944435/)

Context: Docker has moved faster up to 1.0 and we have baggage. It can start to slow down future development if we don't take the time to clean some things up. It's easier now because we have a bigger picture on what docker is
either a couple weeks or 1 release cycle ?

lots of +1's

shykes:
The way I think about it, we should go about it in 2 phases
1. ad-hoc cleanup, just go through the code, understand it, and suggest cleanup, 1 small patch at a time
2. once enough people have participated in ad-hoc cleanup, we can actually talk about high-level architecture. The problem is that very few people have actually spent serious time looking through the internals through-and-through, precisely because it's so arcane
If we discussed high-level architecture now, we would have a low signal/noise ratio

my only concern is
we also have a problem with PR backlog
I don't want to create a situation where it gets worse
maybe a time slot for `pulls alru` processing?

cpuguy83: no, I would say a week-long sprint as an experiment

shykes: I think we should take the time to do this each release cycle (for a week)

PR's and Issues will be marked with a `Cleanup:` prefix.

- Let's take a week after 1.2 release to sprint on cleanup. Clean-a-thon will be coordinated here on #docker-dev

# [gh#7262 - pull images by ID (claytonc)](https://botbot.me/freenode/docker-dev/msg/18946560/)

- [Proposal: WIP: Pull image by ID via the tag field if no tag found](https://github.com/docker/docker/pull/7262)

So this was intended to give people with a docker client a way to retrieve images by id so they can reliably script rollbacks and rollforwards of images without worrying whether a tag was changed

IT attepmted to minimize the changes to both registry and clients, at the risk of potentially confusing the "tag" field on docker pull

The big risk would be conflating tag with id on the client cli - however in practice, since the recommendation for the "i want to pull an exact image" is "tag that image by its id" it doesn't seem to be confusing

shykes: I'm +1 on "pinning" to image ID to protect yourself against mutable tags, but I don't like using the ID as a tag

claytonc: so you'd prefer to expand the client API for a separate concept (potentially) to avoid conflating it?

This Proposal needs integrate with others, like [Proposal: docker prune: garbage collection of unreachable filesystem layers](https://github.com/docker/docker/issues/6802) and [imgstore: a simplified, redesigned interface for an image store](https://github.com/docker/docker/pull/7263)

see log for detailed discussions

# [process to review PRs (shykes)](https://botbot.me/freenode/docker-dev/msg/18947656/)

We are getting through a massive volume of PR's, but our backlog is larger than we like.

Shykes started with a suggestion that we change from every MAINTAINER having a little ownership of many PR's, 
to assigning a few PR's to a MAINTAINER, and they focus on that one. (again - for post 1.2.0)

@erikh is going to look after making some tooling - possibly using `gordon`

This sparked a number of PR's to the MAINTAINER process:
- [Remove the restriction on multi-user PRs](https://github.com/docker/docker/pull/7354)

Also re-affirming that when a PR only needs small changes, the MAINTAINERs can and will take the PR
over and do the things needed to merge.

# [EOM](https://botbot.me/freenode/docker-dev/msg/18951635/)

Post meeting there was further discussion for an hour or 2...
